README.md, before:

# README

## Ruby version
Make sure you have ruby version 2.7 installed

## System dependencies
Make sure you have a version of postgres installed and running on your local machine

## Getting Started
- install dependencies `bundle install`
- Create and migrate your db `rake db:create db:migrate`
- start server `rails s` (will start on 3000. Use -p option to specify a different part)
- rails c opens a developer console
- navigate to `http://localhost:3000` to use 

## How to run the test suite
rspec spec

## General Notes
- The app is written with just rails and erb templates.  It's been a while since I've used these parts of rails so was a little rusty.  Most of the applications I've worked on over the past few years (and all the tech at JS) are rails APIs , node APIs and Javascript client applications (mostly React on client-side)

## TODOs with more time:

### URL Validation:
- Currently using a ruby built-in library to validate that the long urls users input are correct.  With more time, I would add a little more validation on the input urls with something along the lines of running a quick scrape of that URL to make sure it returns an http status of :ok/200

### Testing:
- Would add a few more tests, including tests to make sure the regex for the tiny url is correct

### Dev Environment
- Would spend a little more time and dockerize the application, making it easy for other developers to boot up the app with the same dev environment

### Deployment
- the app is simple enough to deploy on any AWS service (such as elastic beanstalk or ECS) or even heroku for even simpler deplyoment
- Would probably host the database on AWS RDS postgres or aurora for the read replica power (if we expect a tonne of users)
- If the app grew, would look into hooking up a nice CI/CD workflow with somelike like CircleCI, and potentially add things like feature flags to make development and feature releases more efficient

### Alerting & Monitoring
- would hook in a few tools like Sentry to catch exceptions and send alerts if the app is not working as expected
- Would also add some APM monitoring with something like New Relic to be able to get a good analytical view of the performance of the app and the various endpoints
- Would come up with a list of business metrics we want to track, and implement some logging or a dashboard to track these.  I.e., total urls made, total urls visited, etc.

### Sharing URLs
- would add a quick mailer that can email the url to a friend

Commit message:

update readme with a few notes

README.md, after:

# README

## Ruby version
Make sure you have ruby version 2.7 installed

## System dependencies
Make sure you have a version of postgres installed and running on your local machine

## Getting Started
- install dependencies `bundle install`
- Create and migrate your db `rake db:create db:migrate`
- start server `rails s` (will start on 3000. Use -p option to specify a different part)
- rails c opens a developer console
- navigate to `http://localhost:3000` to use 

## How to run the test suite
rspec spec

## General Notes
- The app is written with just rails and erb templates.  It's been a while since I've used these parts of rails so was a little rusty.  Most of the applications I've worked on over the past few years (and all the tech at JS) are rails APIs , node APIs and Javascript client applications (mostly React on client-side)

## TODOs with more time:

### URL Validation:
- Currently using a ruby built-in library to validate that the long urls users input are correct.  With more time, I would add a little more validation on the input urls with something along the lines of running a quick scrape of that URL to make sure it returns an http status of :ok/200

### IP Address Validation:
- Depending on the way the application is deployed, the way I'm logging the ip address (request.remote_ip) might not return the initial IP the request was made from.  I.e., certain types of load balancers might just return the IP from the load balancer instead of the initial request IP, or if you're using something like Cloudflare or another proxy server you might end up with the proxy IP instead.  With more time I would add more scenarios to this to make sure I'm getting the proper orginating IP address from whoever clicks the URL.

### Testing:
- Would add a few more tests, including tests to make sure the regex for the tiny url is correct

### Dev Environment
- Would spend a little more time and dockerize the application, making it easy for other developers to boot up the app with the same dev environment

### Deployment
- the app is simple enough to deploy on any AWS service (such as elastic beanstalk or ECS) or even heroku for even simpler deplyoment
- Would probably host the database on AWS RDS postgres or aurora for the read replica power (if we expect a tonne of users)
- If the app grew, would look into hooking up a nice CI/CD workflow with somelike like CircleCI, and potentially add things like feature flags to make development and feature releases more efficient

### Alerting & Monitoring
- would hook in a few tools like Sentry to catch exceptions and send alerts if the app is not working as expected
- Would also add some APM monitoring with something like New Relic to be able to get a good analytical view of the performance of the app and the various endpoints
- Would come up with a list of business metrics we want to track, and implement some logging or a dashboard to track these.  I.e., total urls made, total urls visited, etc.

### Sharing URLs
- would add a quick mailer that can email the url to a friend
